Now we're gonna get into some of
the main features of state charts.
Some of them we already went over such
as guarded transitions, and actions and
these are things that can be applied
directly to a state machine.
Which we've been working with
up until this point, but
are also very useful in state charts.
So, what are the charts and
how do they differ from state machines?
State charts bring a lot of new
capabilities to state machines but
at the same time, they can be
decomposed into state machines.
State machines have this problem where
when you have too many states and
transitions, a lot of the connections
between different states and events and
things like that become redundant and
also combinatorially explosive.
So let me give you a quick example,
just demonstrating why that is.
So if we go to xceltra,
let's take this event
right here, this buffering events.
And let's say that we're in
either a playing state or
a paused state and buffering can happen.
But right now it says that buffering
can happen in the playing state.
But we know that,
the internet connection can go out and
buffering can really happen in any state.
So, just gonna add another
arrow here make it white and
we also have buffering
happening right here.
We can even rotate this if we want,
there we go.
All right, so this is one of the first
telltale signs that we're not really
doing anything dry here,
we're really repeating ourselves.
And we have this transition over here in
this exact same transition over here,
when really we want to represent that
whether you're in the playing or
pause state, any one of those states
can receive a buffering event, and
that buffering events can cause us
to go back into the loading states.
Again, this isn't the actual machine
that we're going to be using in
our application, but it's just an example.
So one thing that we could do,
is instead represents the loading
state in both the playing and
pause state as two different states.
So, if I draw like a big state over here.
Then we could group these
two states together.
And so
let's just move this out of the way.
And so now, by doing this,
we could actually get rid of at
least one of these transitions.
And say that we want
the buffering transition to go to
the loading state regardless
of which state we're in.
And now we could also say that,
this loaded transition is going
to go to this parent state,
which we're gonna call ready,
make that a little bit bigger.
And so this ready state
contains both the playing and
the paused state and
what we want to do is also specify that
there is an initial state over here,
which is this playing state.
And so now this actually allows us to dry
up a lot of the logic in our application.
So now instead of saying whether
we're in the playing or paused state,
if it's buffering go to the loading
state for each of these states.
Now we could say in this parents ready
states when the buffering event happens,
go to loading regardless of
what state we're in here.
So we could add 100,
1000 trialed states here and
we don't have to specify
1000 extra transitions.
And so, the way that this state chart now
works is when we're in the loading state
and the loaded event happens, we're now
in the ready states but since the ready
state has trialed states it's also going
to immediately enter this playing states.
So everything is still going
to work just as we expect.
We could pause, we could play,
we could have maybe other states,
but now we have some share
transitions between those states.
And also these transitions
are going to be taken if none of
the children specified that transition.
So if for some reason we have a buffering
transition on one of the children,
then that's going to be taken
as priority over this one.
It's where the same way that in
events propagation in the DOM works,
we start at the trialed nod.
And then if that doesn't handle it, we
propagate it up to the parent's node and
if that doesn't handle it, we go to the
next parent node and so on and so forth.
A compound state is a recursive
data structure in XState.
And we could specify that,
I'll just go into the visualizer,
so we could specify that inside
any of the actual states.
So, we could give this an initial of one,
I'm just going to
make some contrived states and
then we have states one, two.
And so now if we take a look at this and
there's no implementation for
that guard, so I'm gonna get rid of that,
we see that we immediately entered
the initial state of the loaded state and
we could pretty much do
this as deep as we want to.
In fact I could just copy this here.
And so, now we have even deeper trialed
states, so just to show you over here so
now we enter the initial state
of loaded which I set to two and
the initial state of
two which I set to one.
And you could go as deep as
you want with this grouping
the states in a way that makes sense for
your application.
The general strategy for
this by the way is just like you
would start with transition actions and
move into entry and
exit actions,
when you see repetition happening,
you would do the same with trialed states.
So if you see that playing in pause
both have transitions in common,
you have to stop and think to yourself,
how are these states related,
if they are and should they be
gripped in a parent state instead.
So using compound states is more of
an organizational technique which comes
with a lot of cool features like we're
gonna talk about in the upcoming
lessons such as history states and
final states.
So it's definitely a really useful
tool that helps you cut down on
the number of transitions
in your state chart